# CryptDB: Protecting Confidentiality with Encrypted Query Processing

This paper by Popa et al. details the construction of a database that protects the confidentiality of data from two threats A) a rouge DBA who inspects data stored in the databse and B) a passive attacker who can completely compromise both the application and the database. The key to their approach is to store data in columns in layers of encryption. This onion of encryption is ordered from least secure (actual data) inside with the most secure encryption on the outside. The security of an encryption algorithm depends on properties that can be extracted from the data, such as equality, cross-product ordering (joins), ordering, keyword matching, homomorphic encryption (addition), etc. This encryption scheme allows the data to be decrypted on the fly for the specific query that a user cares about. Some keys can be permuted with a user password so no one but the user can have access to them.

By enclosing multiple encryption schemes within one another, they ensure performance for many real world queries. There is some adaptive reencryption that I assume helped improve TPC-C performance. Overall, I liked this paper. The idea of composing encryption to gradually enable richer queries is something very creative that I like. There is a tradeoff between security and perfomance so I think there is some interesting work to be done to plot this tradeoff and analyze it. Moreover, I would have liked to see evaluation for the amount of data increase they have to store (with so many keys).
