# End-to-end arguments in systems design

Saltzer et. al. present a pretty simple concept at the core of the paper - that communications systems should implement functions at the application level instead of abstracting the application out of the system design entirely. The justification for this is simplicity and correctness; sometimes it is necessary to involve the application to completely implement certain functionality, or in some cases they present, it dramatically simplifies system design.

The authors present several common case studies about the end-to-end argument. The data transfer argument is the most in-depth and presents a convincing argument for the use of the end-to-end design argument. However, I liked the example of the RISC example particularly. A large portion of the intrinics on modern CPUs remain unused by state-of-the-art compilers, which is perhaps evidence of unneeded complexity. And with some of the recent architecture vulnerabilities (such as Spectre), perhaps this principle is relevant still.

One criticism of this paper is that I don't feel it discusses the limits for the end-to-end argument. Taken to the extreme, it doesn't make sense to apply this technique to every problem one might encounter in building a system, as that would lead to a significant waste of engineering time. Moreover, modern programmers rely on primitives such as reliable delivery in TCP and on QoS in network routing. Also, these arguments often do not work in situtations where multiple systems need to collaborate - for example, it's difficult to apply the end-to-end argument if I'm using AWS for example.