# The case for VM based cloudlets in Mobile Computing

This article discusses a process of offloading compute from mobile devices to distributed servers near the clients in the real world. Tail effects of latency make it difficult to use the cloud as processing offload for augmented reality applications (not sure if I buy this argument). However, latency is hard to improve significantly. It's interesting that the cloudlet concept proposes shipping only diffs to a base VM when launching a VM. This is one of the key appeals of containers currently, as one needs to only describe the changes they make to a base distribution and thus minimize the state that one needs to store in order to launch a VM. I'm not sure if I like this paper - it has some interesting ideas (and some like dynamic VM synthethesis that have become more common today). But a network request consumes several orders of magnitude more power on a mobile device than an arithmetic operation. So this approach would dramatically reduce battery life on edge devices, which is purportedly one of the motivations for introducing cloudlets.

The "Transient customizatino of mobile computing infrastructure" paper covers a similar concept to the previous paper (and even shares the key diagram). The last author on both papers appears to be common between both works. So Kimberly is a system that only retains the "deltas" to base VM state. The authors demonstrate the practicality of this approach on a Nokia tablet PC. My biggest critisism for this work is that the startup delays they encounter are enormous still - 1-2 minutes for applications with a 100 Mbps link speed (which is still fast by wireless standards). I think a better approach to this problem would make RPC calls to standard infrastructure and optionally would download additional code/VM residue from the cloud instead of a device. This then suffers none of the bandwidth and power concerns of a mobile device.
